the heads of the American and Israeli
intelligence agencies have met in Cairo
for Talks brokered by Egyptian andq
officials the discussions are aimed at
reaching a deal to end the war on Gaza
but the meeting is ended without a clear
breakthrough israelian media is
reporting that serious disagreements
remain we're going to bring in Hassan
barari he's professor of international
Affairs at Kut University he's also
researcher at the center for strategic
studies at the University of Jordan he's
joining us here in Doha good to have you
with
I want to ask you about those talks in a
moment but first of all I want to talk
to you about the Drone strike that uh
that hit our aler journalists our
correspondents um and the cameraman now
we know that there's a large number of
journalists Palestinian journalists
particularly who have been uh targeted
in Israel's war on Gaza why do you think
it appears this is the fifth time that
Al jaer journalists have been targeted
why do you think Al jazer is being
singled out I think they're trying to
Target Jer correspondent simply because
they want to silence them uh they're
very annoyed by the Jer cavage they know
that Jer enjoy a wide world uh kind of
audience and they wanted just to make
sure that you know uh El jaaz probably
they want them to behave uh and this is
one thing secondly they want to kill the
eyewitness you know because what aler is
doing is is documenting all the
atrocities and the the genocidal attacks
against the Palestinians and third they
want to I think they want to put on
Qatar and Qatar is is mediating the
whatever truth going to going to take
place in in days to come or weeks to
come I don't know when and they quite
often the Israelis the karite to put a
lot of pressures on Hamas to give in and
to kind of be flexible when it comes to
the uh to the terms of of uh of the
truth and they want the the ter of the
truth to be uh to the like of Netanyahu
and serve his own interest because um he
wanted to have a kind of Victory
internally he wanted he want to tell the
Israeli that my leadership has been uh
uh good has paid off and uh and he wants
the katari to do and help him realize uh
what he failed to realize in the
Battleground and that's jaer is being
targeted all these cameramen and
correspondents I think this is a clear
message to Qatar that Kat should step
and and do think that would be in line
with Israeli interest as we were just
mentioning I mean k playing a key role
in the the talks to try to find some
sort of root map towards a ceasefire uh
in Gaza there that brings us of course
to the talks that are going on in Cairo
at the moment there had been some sense
of a cautious optimism prior to these
talks in Cairo very cautious but now we
understand that at least this initial
this latest round um has really ended in
in nothing and the Israeli delegation I
understand um has gone back to Tel Aviv
is the optimism still Justified do you
think I think it is but uh probably not
soon you know we're not going to see
like impact in probably 10 days or two
weeks to come uh simply because
Netanyahu um ordered his his team go to
Karen just to listen not even to engage
in any any discussion H he is not
interested in the truth as being
suggested by Egyptian katarian Dem
Americans simply because he wanted the
war to continue uh he knows that if uh
things work out out for the truth and
then maybe there would be a kind of
ceasefire for I don't know 45 days two
months you know because we heard
different virgins H this will probably
change the Dynamics within the Israeli
society and Nan would be held
accountable for the the wrongdoing that
is committed um don't forget that only
16% of the Israelis U think that he fit
the bill of leadership and the the vast
majority say uh you know netan should
step down
or should be replaced in after after the
war comes to an end so he knows you know
once this comes to an end he would be
also uh put on trial because of other
issues mainly corruption uh so it's a
kind of fake leap for him to continue
the war simply because the war would
give him the opportunity would give him
probably a future chances to claim that
he has led Israel into Victory and and
this would probably improve his image
and mitigate the whatever bad image
about him about his his management of
the War uh so the last thing that he
want to see is ceas fire right now uh
because Israel failed to realize the
twin objectives um like you know
destroying Hamas and release the the
hostages uh and if this going to be
through the uh the truth like you know
the hostages think Hamas going to be be
continuing like in in in Gaza and this
would be against his interest and he
then he cannot claim victory and as we
know in the first truce remember the
first month of the War uh it was seen in
even in Israel as a victory for Hamas uh
so his leadership is being at at tresk
and he want the the continuation of the
war for some sometimes another reason
for that is that rightwing component of
his government uh I I think this is a
problem for him because they threaten
that if he agrees uh to a ceas fire they
will pull out and and this will bring
down his government and this will
probably open the door for a new Dynamic
that will hurt Nano personally mhm I
want to ask you about one of the other
key players in the ne in these
negotiations Egypt of course now um
Egypt has said that it is growing
concerned about the possibility that
Palestinians are going to be forced to
cross the border from Gaza into Northern
Sinai and that would create a
significant problem for them there had
been concerns that the peace agreement
that exists between Egypt and Israel
might suffer as a result of that if if
that happened Egypts come out and said
no actually the agreement is going to be
still in place but if Palestinians are
forced AC cross the border from Gaza
into Northern Sinai that is going to one
would imagine make things very difficult
for Egypt to remain as a a neutral
player if you like in the negotiations
how do you think Egypt is going to have
to respond if that happens I I think
Egypt right now is in limbo you know in
the one hand they want the uh peace
treaty with Israel to continue because
they benefit from that and here I'm
talking about the government they
received a lot of uh economic AIDS from
the Americans because of the uh Camp
David agreement uh but on on the other
hand uh a lot of statements coming from
senior Egyptian officials say that uh
the migration of the Palestinians into
siai would
pose a threat to their National Security
and they're willing to send up to the
Israelis uh this is what we understand
but lately also they deploy some tanks
uh on the um northern border of uh of uh
uh of Sinai uh sorry in the southern
border of Sai and because they want to
prevent the any any probably uh Force
migration into their own land I don't
know how this going to play out because
if naano pushed them to go and then the
Egyptian interfered like militarily
speaking especially probably we're going
to witness kind of Israeli Egyptian
clash and this would be an escalation I
think the Americans will not tolerate
that and they probably will put a lot of
pressures on on Netanyahu but we know
that Netanyahu is in in defi so he might
do anything he's like really a risky man
is dangerous man he might probably cause
uh an escalation with with Egypt and
this would be um I think this would be a
game changer for the whole conflict Hass
Bahar we really appreciate you giving us
the benefit of your analysis on that
thank you so much indeed